README.md, before:

# A Self-Taught DS&A Curriculum 

A collection of Data Structures & Algorithms knowledge gathered as a self-taught programmer.

## Background
As an aspiring self-taught software engineer, I have spent many nights Googling what it takes to become a great software engineer. A consistent, reoccurring answer was Data Structures & Algorithms. 

After spending 6 months studying DS&A and solving 550+ LC questions (leetcode.com/teampark), I firmly agree that DS&A knowledge has been THE most important factor in gaining coding confidence.

This repository contains solutions to Leetcode questions and fundamental Data Structures implemented from scratch. This repository also contains a roadmap to going from absolutely ZERO knowledge (not knowing what an array was) to ranking in the top 10% of Leetcode contest participants. 

If you are a hiring manager, hello and welcome to my journey. If you are an aspiring programmer, use this as a road map to improving your knowledge of Data Structures & Algorithms.

# Road Map

## Phase 0: The Mindset 
Before touching any DS&A concepts, you must understand that this will not be easy. There will be multiple times you'll want to quit. There will be countless hours you spend utterly confused. You'll feel dread. You'll feel anxious. You'll wonder if this is even worth it. But I promise you, it is.

To help prepare for these mental battles, please complete the following:

**1. Bounce by Matthew Syed** 
Practice > Talent  

Look at the GOATS - Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, Michael Phelps, etc. All these great athletes are widely considered as "naturally talented" at their craft. However, when you look behind that phrase, you see 1000's of hours filled with consistent, disciplined practice. 

You're going to suck at solving algorithms at first but with practice you will become great. 

**2. The Dip by Seth Godin** 
When you should and shouldn't quit. 

Trust me. You'll want to quit during this journey. Multiple times. This book will help you understand that the quitting feeling is important. It is there for a reason. It will weed people out. If everyone could solve algorithms, it wouldn't be special. 

Keep pushing through the dip.

**3. Learning How to Learn by Barbara Oakley**
Work Smarter, Not Harder.

This is a free course available on Coursera that teaches you the different ways your brain processes information. Learn how to study in a way that leverages the way your brain is built. The real gem in this course is the concept of Growth Mindset: believing your abilities can be improved through practice.


## Phase 1: The Introduction

This phase is purely meant to get you familiar with the language of DS&A. 

Don't worry too much on actually learning and memorizing the material just yet. You will need to see the material over and over again to strengthen the neural connection in your brain. This is just getting your brain started. 

Read Grokking Algorithms by Aditya Bhargava. 

Search Google/Youtube for the following: 
1. Big O notation 
2. Fundamental Data Structures (Arrays, Lists, Maps, Stacks, Queues, Heaps) 
3. Non-Linear Data Structures (Trees and Graphs)

## Phase 2: Getting Comfortable  
Now you're ready to put this reading into practice. 

Open up Leetcode and solve questions tagged as Easy. Let yourself struggle for 10-15 minutes. Look at the hints. Read the discussions. Do not memorize the solution. Instead, understand WHY the approach works. 

Don't be discouraged if you struggle here. Remember it takes time. Be patient and trust in the process.

## Phase 3: Ramping Up
Congrats! You're able to solve Easy questions.

You should feel more comfortable with the whole process now. Reading a question. Thinking things through. Trying something. Figuring out why it doesn't work. Getting to a working solution. Now it's time to really ramp things up.

Watch the **MIT 6.00.6 - Introduction to Algorithms** course available for free on Youtube. The quality of free material you can find online is incredible. The course lecturers are great and engaging. This course was the first moment I felt that DS&A was FUN.

Next, go through a DS&A textbook of your choice. I personally went for **Data Structures & Algorithms in Python**. Another classic one is **Algorithm Design Manual by Skienna**. You don't have to read every single page, but read until you understand the concepts. 

Finally learn the following:

**Tree Traversals:** Preorder, Postorder, Inorder
**Graph Traversal:** BFS/DFS
**Techniques:** Dynamic Programming, Backtracking, Greedy


## Phase 4: Building Mental Patterns
You've made it far.  You should be able to solve some of the Medium questions on Leetcode. You're not yet amazing at this, but now you feel like you're treading water instead of drowning. Are you ready to start swimming? 

The most important phase is building the mental arsenal for solving algorithm questions. Lucky for you, there are only so many types of algorithm questions that can be asked. Use this to your advantage. Pay attention to what key words prompt you to go for a certain approach. 

A few examples below: 

**Binary Search:** Sorted, Ordered Sequence, Search, O(logN)
**Breadth-First Search:** Graph, Path Finding, Shortest/Least/Minimum
**Dynamic Programming:** Maximum/Minimum, Optimal Solution, Best/Worst 
**Backtracking:** Find All, Generate All 

## Phase 5: Practice
There is no shortcut. The last step is practice.

Commit message:

Add Leetcode images to README

README.md, after:

# A Self-Taught DS&A Curriculum 

A collection of Data Structures & Algorithms knowledge gathered as a self-taught programmer.

If you are a hiring manager, these are the steps I took to achieve mastery of DS&A. If you are an aspiring programmer, use this as a road map to improving your knowledge of DS&A.

## Background
As an aspiring self-taught software engineer, I have spent many nights Googling what it takes to become a great software engineer. A consistent, reoccurring answer was Data Structures & Algorithms. 

After spending 6 months studying DS&A and solving 550+ LC questions (leetcode.com/teampark), I firmly agree that DS&A knowledge has been THE most important factor in gaining coding confidence.

This repository contains solutions to Leetcode questions and fundamental Data Structures implemented from scratch. This repository also contains a roadmap to going from absolutely ZERO knowledge (not knowing what an array was) to ranking in the top 10% of Leetcode contest participants. 

# Road Map

## Phase 0: The Mindset 
Before touching any DS&A concepts, you must understand that this will not be easy. There will be multiple times you'll want to quit. There will be countless hours you spend utterly confused. You'll feel dread. You'll feel anxious. You'll wonder if this is even worth it. But I promise you, it is.

To help prepare for these mental battles, please complete the following:

**1. Bounce by Matthew Syed** 
Practice > Talent  

Look at the GOATS - Michael Jordan, Tiger Woods, Michael Phelps, etc. All these great athletes are widely considered as "naturally talented" at their craft. However, when you look behind that phrase, you see 1000's of hours filled with consistent, disciplined practice. 

You're going to suck at solving algorithms at first but with practice you will become great. 

**2. The Dip by Seth Godin** 
When you should and shouldn't quit. 

Trust me. You'll want to quit during this journey. Multiple times. This book will help you understand that the quitting feeling is important. It is there for a reason. It will weed people out. If everyone could solve algorithms, it wouldn't be special. 

Keep pushing through the dip.

**3. Learning How to Learn by Barbara Oakley**
Work Smarter, Not Harder.

This is a free course available on Coursera that teaches you the different ways your brain processes information. Learn how to study in a way that leverages the way your brain is built. The real gem in this course is the concept of Growth Mindset: believing your abilities can be improved through practice.


## Phase 1: The Introduction

This phase is purely meant to get you familiar with the language of DS&A. 

Don't worry too much on actually learning and memorizing the material just yet. You will need to see the material over and over again to strengthen the neural connection in your brain. This is just getting your brain started. 

Read Grokking Algorithms by Aditya Bhargava. 

Search Google/Youtube for the following: 
1. Big O notation 
2. Fundamental Data Structures (Arrays, Lists, Maps, Stacks, Queues, Heaps) 
3. Non-Linear Data Structures (Trees and Graphs)

## Phase 2: Getting Comfortable  
Now you're ready to put this reading into practice. 

Open up Leetcode and solve questions tagged as Easy. Let yourself struggle for 10-15 minutes. Look at the hints. Read the discussions. Do not memorize the solution. Instead, understand WHY the approach works. 

Don't be discouraged if you struggle here. Remember it takes time. Be patient and trust in the process.

## Phase 3: Ramping Up
Congrats! You're able to solve Easy questions.

You should feel more comfortable with the whole process now. Reading a question. Thinking things through. Trying something. Figuring out why it doesn't work. Getting to a working solution. Now it's time to really ramp things up.

Watch the **MIT 6.00.6 - Introduction to Algorithms** course available for free on Youtube. The quality of free material you can find online is incredible. The course lecturers are great and engaging. This course was the first moment I felt that DS&A was FUN.

Next, go through a DS&A textbook of your choice. I personally went for **Data Structures & Algorithms in Python**. Another classic one is **Algorithm Design Manual by Skienna**. You don't have to read every single page, but read until you understand the concepts. 

Finally learn the following:

**Tree Traversals:** Preorder, Postorder, Inorder
**Graph Traversal:** BFS/DFS
**Techniques:** Dynamic Programming, Backtracking, Greedy


## Phase 4: Building Mental Patterns
You've made it far.  You should be able to solve some of the Medium questions on Leetcode. You're not yet amazing at this, but now you feel like you're treading water instead of drowning. Are you ready to start swimming? 

The most important phase is building the mental arsenal for solving algorithm questions. Lucky for you, there are only so many types of algorithm questions that can be asked. Use this to your advantage. Pay attention to what key words prompt you to go for a certain approach. 

A few examples below: 

**Binary Search:** Sorted, Ordered Sequence, Search, O(logN)
**Breadth-First Search:** Graph, Path Finding, Shortest/Least/Minimum
**Dynamic Programming:** Maximum/Minimum, Optimal Solution, Best/Worst 
**Backtracking:** Find All, Generate All 

## Phase 5: Practice
There is no shortcut. Practice makes perfect. 

www.Leetcode.com/teampark 

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/X7LkbmP.png)

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/6YEdxwd.png)
